

Laparoscopic hernia repair in Guwahati is a speciality that focuses on the surgical management of hernia. The laparoscopic surgery team at Health Wings Hospital is one of the best teams in Guwahati, comprising highly qualified expert doctors offering non-invasive surgeries of hernia. Hernia surgery is performed by the doctors after analyzing the condition and severity of the problem. When it becomes irreducible, surgery becomes inevitable.
Patients can return to work early and recover quickly. Health Wings Hospital is a one-stop solution for diagnosis, treatment & surgery for all types of hernia. When there is a risk of strangulation, it is mandatory to perform laparoscopic hernia surgery as soon as possible. With the advent of laparoscopic surgery, the hernia can be repaired without any risk nowadays.

Minimal Invasive hernia repair is more suitable for tackling complex hernia types such as Bilateral Hernia. Laparoscopic hernia treatment prevents other hernias as the mesh installed at the time of surgery covers all the defects in the inguinal region. In the hands of experienced surgeons at Health Wings Hospital, each Hernia Operation is handled with care. Health Wings is a dedicated speciality center and the best hospital for hernia repair in Guwahati for the diagnosis, treatment, and repair of all types of Hernia.

We do top-quality, cost-effective, and non-recurring Minimal Invasive hernia surgery. The team can tackle every type of Umbilical hernia surgery because of the high levels of skills and expertise. Meet the surgeons at Health Wings and get satisfactory answers to all your queries about the Inguinal hernia treatment.

Health Wings, Guwahati has been recognized as "Centre of Excellence in Hernia Surgery" by Asia Pacific Hernia Society and also by Hernia Society of India. This i the only center in North-East India to get this International accreditation.
Health Wings Hospital has pioneered Laparoscopic hernia surgery almost 25 years ago and have been dealing with the most complicated hernias.
The main concern among patients undergoing hernia surgery is the fear of recurrences. If you reach the point where you need hernia care surgery, it's important to go to a comprehensive hernia center to get the best of treatment. Health Wings Hospital has been a referral center for many years for hernia surgery.